At this point, at this moment,
you are probably good enough
a figment to be dangerous.
Now we get into a victory lap
of things that are useful.
We also get into the part of the portion
that is somewhat paywalls, right,
and so, follow along gets a little bit
harder at this point, but that is okay.
I will take you on a tour because
theoretically if you use this for
side projects, yeah,
maybe you stick to the free stuff.
Design team is the one that is
footing the bill for and Figma, so
I have a paid Figma account, and
most of these things are brand new.
So years and years of designs made
in Figma before any of these,
you do not need a paid Figma account
except for some of these features.
So the other thing that variables
support are these things called modes,
right?
So, a free account you get no modes or
you get one mode technically
which is no modes, right?.
Modes are only helpful if
you have more than one.
But on a paid account, you can have modes,
you can have up to four,
it's interesting, the starter I'm
gonna pay for myself account,
you get four modes, the professional
account, you get four modes.
If you go to enterprise, which I
don't even have, you get 40, right?
It's not like you got four and this
one eight this one, it's like 0, 4, 4,
40, I don't ever wanna work at
a company where I need 40 modes.
Especially when you see a mode,
you're gonna cry the idea of having 40.
As a developer, you're going to cry
cuz you know what that would mean for
you in your code base.
Cool, so let's take a look,
so I have some setup here.
So we go into variables, and for
the component colors you
can see I have two modes.
And this is kinda what we were
talking about a little bit before, so
if I look at my primary button color,
right, before we had this one column,
I have two modes setup and
see what that means.
I have two columns,
one of them I have called Light and
the other one I have called Dark.
You can take a lucky guess
what I'm doing here.
So now I can go ahead and
I can take this button, and,
cool, here it is, and again,
you didn't even notice that there.
I was talking about this button here,
nobody saw this little icon.
That's two hexagons, two hexagons.
Let's double the code.
So this one I can switch it on component
colors, I can switch it to dark mode,
which is a lighter button,
as somebody who just spent six weeks
implementing dark mode,
I don't recommend it.
I mean, do it cuz everyone wanted it, but
everything's lighter cuz everything's
darker, it's counterintuitive.
So you can switch it
from light to dark and
like those variables then change
to their other properties, right?
And what's kinda cool about
this is that like CSS or
like JavaScript, there's some
amount of cascading inheritance.
I just took two words that
mean different things and
put ' together and
you all nodded, so it's cool.
So here I can take a frame, and,
let's say that it's Phil is I
have not in these primitives, and
I would never publish the primitives, but
in this file, I have to deal with them.
I have one called Background, right?
And Background is white in light mode,
and it's slate 950 cuz
one time I read something you should
never actually use black, whatever.
And so it's slate 950 in dark mode,
and so what I can do,
there it is in dark mode,
there it is in light mode,
there it is in light mode.
So I can drag this button in.
And you know what, let's,
let's get two more buttons.
Let's toss in a primary button.
Let's toss in a secondary button too,
let's put lots of buttons in here.
It's great, then let's take this frame,
If we switch to dark mode,
all of the subsequent lesser
values also switch into dark mode.
So, and you can't do this with styles and
this is where the difference between
variable and styles kind of exists.
If you have two modes,
then it like if I look at this
button right now, it is set to,
It's set to auto now, it wasn't before,
the other two were though, so it's fine.
It's set to auto,
which means it will inherit, right?
And so they don't care if there
is a parent above them in
the frame hierarchy that has a mode set,
it will then inherit that mode.
If you all your code is the variables, and
you have these two sets of modes, right,
you can throw together
your dark mode prototype,
just by dragging the same components and
re-arranging them in dark mode.
And that I would argue is
the most common case for modes.